## Work Plan
During the two years as CODATA Working Group, OneGeochemistry will focus on Community Building (engaging with partners and participants, forming expert working groups, and  expanding efforts to seek endorsement of unions, societies, commissions and associations; in especially the first half year of WG formation), Generation of Common Vocabularies (through formation of expert working groups and collaboration between existing initiatives) and Generation of FIPs and Recommendations (of  geochemistry data reporting). The OneGeochemistry Initiative has sent out a formal letter seeking endorsement to several geochemical associations, commissions and societies. Once endorsed by these societies OneGeochemistry will extend an invitation to experts from these and the wider geochemistry community to join expert groups in early 2023. One expert group will be charged to develop common vocabularies and another expert group will where possible build upon existing or else generate new recommendations towards geochemical data reporting. Firstly, common vocabularies for both geochemical techniques and analytes will be created by the geochemistry community (e.g. for XRF and ICP-MS, elemental concentrations and U–Pb isotopes). These vocabularies will be developed in consultation and collaboration with other initiatives and groups that are well advanced in the development of digital data standards that both ensure compliance with FAIR and also enable interoperability of geochemical data with the other 10 Work Packages of the WorldFAIR project. These initiatives and groups include the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) and their ‘Colour Books’; CODATA DDI-CDI Cross Domain Integration Initiative; the CODATA Digital Representation of Units of Measure (DRUM) Task Group; and relevant Research Data Alliance (RDA) groups (e.g., Vocabulary Services Interest Group; Earth, Space, and Environmental Sciences Interest Group; etc): these efforts will be aligned with the ‘10 Simple Rules’ for making a vocabulary FAIR. These FAIR vocabularies are to be published through Research Vocabularies Australia (RVA) and will serve as examples on how to build and publish further geochemistry subdiscipline specific vocabularies.
Through the CODATA Working Group, and as part of the CODATA-led WorldFAIR Project, OneGeochemistry aims to engage and motivate community repositories and databases to share their FAIR Enabling Resources (FERs) in a FAIR Implementation Profile (FIP). From the various FIPs, common FERs can be extracted to be published (after about a year into the WG) that will help repositories and databases to become more FAIR (especially facilitating interoperability). The publication of vocabularies, FIPs and geochemistry data reporting recommendations will allow the community to use and consider them for QA/QC of geochemical datasets published in the literature.
Although this Working Group has been established in the context of the WorldFAIR Project and the process of formalising OneGeochemistry in that project, it will continue beyond the life of the WorldFAIR project, ensuring continuity and sustainability in the process of building the OneGeochemistry initiative.